TEL: +92-21-99261261-8
NED University of Engineering & Technology FAX: +92-21-99261255 ae) L eh
ORLA ele leh EMAIL: registrar@neduet.edu.pk Li va
Karachi-75270 WEBSITE: www.neduet.edu.pk @NEDUET Official

@: , a
'O}} a

The NED Universita of paneer &
Technology, one of the oldest institutions

in Pakistan for teaching and producing IMPACT 401-600

Engineering graduates, was established in

March 1977 under an Act of the Provincial :

Assembly of Sindh after upgrading the W Or / | R all k ng 2 0 2 Q
former NED Government Engineering

College, which was set up in 1921.
From an enrolment of 50 students in 1923, rr

the student population, at undergraduate, al
graduate and Ph.D. levels, has now gone to ="

 

 

 

   

more than 12,000. The University has one

Main Campus of 5,167,877 sq. ft. situated
on the Main University Road. The : Lh
University has two satellite campuses: LEJ [|
Campus (100,000 sq. ft.) where Biomedical

Engineering programme is conducted; and

the City campus (70,000 sq. ft) which is the ASIAN

site of the original NED Campus where UNIVERSITY
Architecture and Development Studies —— RANKINGS
programmes are conducted.

NED University has started a constituent

college at Tharparkar District, offering BS TOP = oT 0
in Computer Science and BE Civil ».

Engineering Programmes. RESEARCH
INNOVATION AND

Cons i] tuen { I eaching “ aes 4  COMMERCIALIZATION 2024-25
College Departments 2” 30

Ranking in HR Ranking in
a and Operations Research
Ath Excellence

Ranking in
Innovation and
Commercialization

 

Faculties

   
 
  
   

NED University of Engineering & NED University LEJ Campus

Wola l are) oS: OLIN AA elelep 81-A, Block-3, Memom Co-operative Housing
Karachi-75270 Society, Karachi.

a 7 : ama fF TG
Figsligastiscctsgtalem tin an welga 1 fa? g
= iter era eee at 7 j
ipa | r Le rs

LL,

ae |, | aay Id Vi vls bik in oO | ) i; an
f / i ti [eee | ‘hn

All undergraduate programmes are accredited by their relevant accrediting
councils, including the Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) at Level II for Bachelor
of Engineering programmes, the National Computing Education Accreditation
Council (NCEAC) for Computer Science programmes, the Pakistan Council of
Town Planners and Architects (PCTPAC) for Architecture, and the Higher
Education Commission (HEC) for other disciplines.

BE Programmes

BE in Civil Engineering

BE in Civil Engineering (specialization in

Construction Engg.)

BE in Civil Engineering (specialization in

Urban Engg.)

BE in Petroleum Engineering

BE in Mechanical Engineering

BE in Mechanical Engineering
(specialization in Automotive Engg.)

BE in Textile Engineering

BE in Industrial and Manufacturing

Engineering

BE in Electrical Engineering

BE in Computer Systems Engineering

BE in Electronic Engineering

BE in Telecommunication Engineering

BE in Biomedical Engineering

BE in Software Engineering

BE in Chemical Engineering

BE in Materials Engineering

BE in Metallurgical Engineering

BE in Polymer and _ Petrochemical

   
  

Engineering

BE in Food Engineering
Masters
Programmes

NI IDRCT Te ACA Celi eec
Maulana Din Muhammad Wafai Road, Karachi-
74200

BS Programmes

BS in Computer Science

BS in Computer Science (specialization
in Artificial Intelligence)

BS in Computer Science (specialization
in Data Sciences)

BS in Computer Science (specialization
in Cyber Security)

BS in Computer Science (specialization
in Gaming & Animation)

BS in Computational Finance

BS in Management Sciences

BS in Textile Sciences

BS in Physics

BS in Chemistry

BS in English Linguistics

BS in English

BS in Economics and Finance

BS in Development Studies

B. Arch Programme

Bachelor of Architecture

=< | PhD

~ Programmes

Fire te

Thar Institute of Engineering, Sciences &
Technology (TIEST), Police Road, Mithi,
Tharparkar- 69230, Pakistan.

Students’ Mobility Programme: Each year number of students avail the Mobility
Programme to extend their knowledge and vision at international level. Students of
the University visited countries like China, Turkey and USA in the mobility programme.
Community Services: This is one of the hallmark activities of NED University. The
basic philosophy is to inculcate within students; sense of social service, owing and
contribution to communities around them, volunteering engages students with the
community, increases social awareness and responsibility, developing civic and social
responsibility skills and help to develop interpersonal and leadership skills in students.
Co-Curricular Activities: Controller of Students Affairs in collaboration with various
departments continue to organize seminars, competitions, and activities throughout
the year to enable students to unearth their extraordinary potential in both co-
curricular as well as extra-curricular activities.

Sport: Controller of Student Affairs through its Sports section continues to engage
students in Sports activities throughout the year. Participation in national and
international level sports are arranged for the students. Sports Section was
established at NED University, that is functioning under the Control of Students’
Affairs Department. The facilities provided by the section are: Boys Gymnasium, Girls
Gymnasium, Squash Complex, Two Out Door Basketball Courts, One Tennis Court,
Cricket Ground with Turf Wicket, Football Ground,Hockey Ground and Boys Fitness
Centre.

Chapters of International Societies: Student chapters of following Professional Bodies
are also established which organize events through out the year; American Society of
Heating Refrigeration and, Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), American Society of
Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME), Society of
Petroleum Engineers (SPE), American Concrete Society (ACS), Institute of Mechanical
Engineers (IMechE), NED Materials Society (NMS), Metallurgical Engineering Society
(MES), Society for Chemical Engineering (SCHEME), Society of Polymer &
Petrochemical Engineers (SPPE).

TEL; #92-21-99261261-8

NED University of Engineering & Technology FAX: +92-21-99261255 FOLLOW US

CTIA cleh EMAIL: registrar@neduet.edu.pk md ©
LC Iie(eit UP AAS) WEBSITE: www.neduet.edu.pk @NEDUETOfficial