On the last page, Transaction Slip will be generated, mentioning Transaction ID along 
with your information and the fees to be submitted in the designated commercial 
banks using this transaction slip. Same transaction ID can be used for multiple 
transactions. 
 
Guideline for 
 
UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS 
 
 
Pre-Admission Entry Test 
1. 
Register yourself in Admission Web Portal at NED University Website 
“www.neduet.edu.pk/admission” by entering your Name (as per Matriculation or 
equivalent certificate), Father’s name (as per Matriculation or equivalent certificate), 
e-Mail address (please ensure you have entered your active email address) and Date 
of Birth (as per Matriculation or equivalent certificate). 
2. 
You will receive User ID and Password through email on the email provided in step 1. 
3. 
Please log-in to Admission Web Portal using your user ID and Password provided 
through email. 
4. 
Select the following: 
i. Board from where you passed HSC or equivalent examination. 
ii. Your HSC Examination group i.e. Pre-Engineering or Pre-Medical, etc. 
iii. Your Domicile. 
iv. Select category(ies) for which you are eligible to apply. 
v. Click on save and move to NEXT step. 
5. 
Go to the subsequent pages of Online Admission Web Portal and complete all 
required information. 
6. 
Please make sure to upload an acceptable photograph of candidate as mentioned in 
“Guideline for the Online Application-Photograph”. 
7. 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
Go to the designated banks’ branch as mentioned on the Transaction Slip. 
9. 
Submit the fees as mentioned on the Transaction Slip. 
10. Admit card will be available at the admission portal after confirmation of the fee 
submission by the bank (within 3 to 5 working days). Delay in issuance of admit card 
may be due to invalid/inappropriate photograph or non-confirmation of fee payment

through online by the bank. In that case please write your query on Admission 
Helpdesk. 
11. Don’t forget to bring the print out of your Pre-Admission Entry Test Admit Card at 
the day of Entry Test (mentioned in the schedule on admission website). 
After Qualifying the Pre-Entry Admission Test 
12. Merit 
lists of different 
categories 
will be displayed on NED Website 
(www.neduet.edu.pk/admission) as per Admission Schedule. 
13. If you are called in the Merit List, follow the schedule and perform the following 
activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 
If your name appears in the Merit Lists 
14. Print the filled Application Form from the Admission Web Portal. 
15. Sign the Application Form. Also get your form duly signed by your Parents / Guardian 
and Oath Commissioner. 
16. Signed Admission form, along with all documents mentioned in Document Checklist, 
are to be submitted at the time of interview as mentioned in the Admission Schedule 
on Admission Website. 
17. Candidate will be called for Pre-Admission Interview as per Admission Schedule. 
 
 For any further queries, please read the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) available on 
NED UET website. 
 For further queries please visit Helpdesk on your Admission Portal. 
 For admission in category for those having disability (excluding the disability of deadness, 
dumbness and blindness) and passed HSC (Pre-Engineering/Computer Science) part I and 
II (as the case may be), from any Board of Intermediate of Education situated in province 
of Sindh and having certificate of disability from Department of Empowerment of Persons 
with Disabilities (DEPD), Government of Sindh. Further the candidate is required to 
appear before the Medical Board at the University. 
 For admission in the category reserved for Diploma of Associate Engineer (DAE), the 
applicant must pass the qualifying examination from institution recognized by Sindh 
Board of Technical Education (SBTE), with minimum 60%, during last three years.