Page 1 of 12 
 
NED UNIVERSITY OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY  
E-MAIL: dracad@neduet.edu.pk | WEBSITE: http://www.neduet.edu.pk 
PHONE: (92-21) 99261261-8 EXT-2221/FAX: (92-21) 99261255 
 
 
No.Acad/34(88)/8529  
 
 
 
 
 
Dated: 22-01-2025 
 
NOTIFICATION 
 
It is hereby notified that the University Syndicate vide its Resolution  
No. SYN-211.5(b) dated 23-12-2024 has approved changes/revision in PhD 
Regulations, as under: 
1.  TITLE AND NATURE OF DEGREE 
1.1  These Regulations may be called the NED University of Engineering & Technology 
Regulations-2024 for the proposed Postgraduate studies leading to the Degree of 
Doctor of Philosophy. 
2.  COMMENCEMENT 
2.1 These Regulations shall be applicable for Doctor of Philosophy students admitted 
in Fall 2024 session and onwards unless otherwise specified. 
2.2  For the PhD Supervision requirement, clause 3.7.1 will be applicable to all 
existing and new PhD supervisors. 
2.3 The grading scheme in 4.1(c) shall be applicable w.e.f Spring semester 2025. 
2.4 For the PhD Research Proposal evaluation requirement, clause 4.5 will be 
applicable with immediate effect.  
2.5 Clause 7.7(a) regarding AI generated component in Similarity Index will also be 
applicable with immediate effect. 
3.  CRITERIA AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMISSION 
3.1  Minimum requirement for admission in the Programme shall be Master’s degree 
(minimum 18 year). The Master’s degree should be obtained after completion of 
minimum of 30 credit hours from an HEC-recognized university/DAI with 
minimum 3.0 CGPA (out of 4.0).  
(a)  All applicants to PhD programmes shall be required to qualify (by securing a 
minimum of 60% score), one of the following non-subject specific admission 
tests (except of certain science disciplines where the University may decide for 
subject specific tests); 
(i) The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) test administered by the 
Education Testing Service; 
(ii)  A graduate admission test administered by the Education Testing Council. 
(iii) An equivalent test developed by the University. 
(b) For those having completed Masters’ degree in a different discipline may be 
considered for admission provided that the Postgraduate Admissions 
Committee is satisfied that: 
(i) The individual has a strong interest in pursuing a PhD degree in the 
discipline he/she has applied for admission, and has passed GRE-
Subject/ Equivalent Test (in case the GRE-Subject test for a specific field 
/ discipline is not available / conducted in Pakistan) with minimum 50% 
marks in the discipline of admission, in addition to the General test 
mentioned in 3.1(a).

Page 2 of 12 
 
(ii) The applicant’s prior education has sufficiently prepared him or her to 
undertake the course of studies of the doctoral programme or the 
preparation can be deemed satisfactory by taking a few additional courses 
of 6 to 9 credit hours after starting the programme. 
(c) Those having obtained Master's degree from any foreign universities shall be 
required to submit an equivalence of the degree issued by the HEC to this effect.  
3.2 In addition to the above mentioned requirements, the admission test shall fulfil 
the following requirements:  
3.2.1 The validity of the tests result, mentioned above, shall be one year from the 
date of the test. 
3.2.2 The test offered by the University, at par with GRE General Test, will be 
administered centrally by Admission Committee. 
3.3 An application for admission to the Programme shall be submitted to the 
Chairperson of the concerned Department along with all required documents 
(including a statement of purpose and synopsis), indicating the proposed major 
subject area of research work. 
3.4  At the time of application, the candidate must provide evidence of adequate 
financial support to undertake the complete PhD studies. 
3.5  No Objection Certificate (NOC) from employer will be required at the time of 
application; if applicable. 
3.6  A departmental Postgraduate Admission Committee shall be constituted by the 
concerned Dean which shall comprise of the Chairperson and two senior faculty 
members of the Department/Faculty. The Committee shall assess an applicant's 
suitability on the basis of the test mentioned in 3.2, Statement of Purpose, 
synopsis, academic and professional qualifications, professional experience, 
referees’ letters of recommendation, and shall submit recommendations to the 
concerned Dean to allow induction through concerned Chairperson. The 
Committee shall be notified by Registrar. 
3.7.1 
(a) The departmental Postgraduate Admission Committee, with the consent of 
the candidate and subsequent to the endorsement by the concerned 
Chairperson, will also recommend one supervisor for each candidate. In cases 
where essential, co-supervisor(s) shall be allowed. Their formal allocation 
shall be made at the time of admission of a PhD scholar. 
 
(b) The supervisor / co-supervisor shall obtain Approved PhD Supervisor status 
from NED University for a specified duration by fulfilling the following criteria: 
(i) 
The supervisor / co-supervisor shall possess a PhD or equivalent 
terminal degree from an HEC recognized national (via PhD Country 
Directory Number) / international (via equivalence of foreign PhD degree 
by HEC) university / degree awarding institute (DAI). 
(ii) 
The supervisor / co-supervisor shall fulfill the publication requirements 
being either the first, second, third, or corresponding author for: 
• Science, Engineering and Technology; by having published at least one 
research publication in W category journal for the year of publication, 
within last 3 years after PhD; OR by having published at least five 
research publications in X category journals for the year of publication, 
within last 5 years after PhD (excluding X‡, as specified by HEC Local 
Committee and displayed on the HJRS website). 
• Arts and Humanities, and Social Sciences; by having published at least 
one research publication in W category journal for the year of 
publication, within last 3 years after PhD; OR by having published at

Page 3 of 12 
 
least five research publications in X and Y category journals for the year 
of publication, within last 5 years after PhD (excluding X‡ and Y‡, as 
specified by HEC Local Committee and displayed on the HJRS website). 
(iii) The supervisor / co-supervisor shall qualify advanced level courses from 
MOOCS (Massive Open Online Courses), NAHE (National Academy of 
Higher Education), or NED University, covering content on research 
ethics, publications, patents, etc. 
(iv) ASRB shall evaluate and communicate the validity of the Approved PhD 
Supervisor status to the concerned faculty members of NED University, 
periodically.  
(v) 
Co-supervisor from outside NED University within Pakistan shall be 
evaluated for a specific PhD project only and shall fulfill all the conditions 
as per 3.7.1(b)(i) to 3.7.1(b) (iii).  
(vi) Foreign co-supervisor shall be evaluated based on the PhD degree and 
publication requirements for a specific PhD project only. The supervisor 
shall provide evidence of HEC recognition of the university where the 
foreign co-supervisor had graduated from. 
(vii) Supervisor / co-supervisor with a valid HEC Approved PhD Supervisor 
status shall be exempted from fulfilling the clauses 3.7.1(b)(i) to 
3.7.1(b)(iii) till the expiry of their award letters. 
(viii) Supervisor(s) / co-supervisor(s), who are currently supervising PhD 
scholars but their HEC Approved PhD Supervisor status has been 
expired, shall also be required to fulfil clauses 3.7.1(b)(i) to 3.7.1(b)(iii) 
with immediate effect. 
(ix) The supervisor / co-supervisor shall be exempted from fulfilling 
3.7.1(b)(iii) if (s)he has previously been issued HEC Approved PhD 
Supervisor letter.  
 
(c) In addition to fulfilling Approved PhD Supervisor criteria as per 3.7.1(b), 
the supervisor / co-supervisor shall fulfill the following conditions for every 
research project:  
(i)  
The supervisor shall be a faculty member of this University. 
(ii)  Co-supervisor shall be a faculty member or researcher of this University 
or any other public or private university or DAI, or a researcher or 
scientist at any R&D or public / private sector organization. 
(iii)  Co-supervisor, from outside NED University within Pakistan, shall 
provide an NOC from the parent organization, whereas, co-supervisor, 
from a foreign university, shall provide consent from the parent 
organization. 
(iv)  Supervisor / co-supervisor, if from NED University, shall have valid 
Approved PhD Supervisor status from HEC / NED University which will 
be verified by ASRB at the time of admission of PhD scholar, submission 
of PhD Research Proposal to ASRB, and submission of petition for final 
PhD Defense. Co-supervisor, from outside NED University, shall fulfill 
the relevant criteria as per 3.7.1(b)(v) or 3.7.1(b)(vi). 
(v)  If supervisor / co-supervisor from NED University does not belong to the 
department where the PhD Scholar is enrolled in, (s)he shall obtain 
consent from his / her parent department. 
(vi)  A PhD graduate, fulfilling all other criteria, can co-supervise PhD 
scholars within two years of obtaining a PhD degree. Further, (s)he, after 
two years of obtaining a PhD degree, can supervise one PhD scholar in

Page 4 of 12 
 
3rd year, two PhD scholars in 4th year and maximum up to 5 PhD scholars 
from 5th year onward. 
(vii)  Supervisor / co-supervisor shall provide evidence of the relevance of their 
qualification, research, and experience to the domain in which the 
scholar intends to conduct research. 
(viii)  Supervisor / co-supervisor shall undertake to maintain confidentiality, 
not have any conflict of interest, protect intellectual property, have 
adequate time and availability, and exhibit professionalism. 
 
(d) Whenever required, upon recommendation of departmental Postgraduate 
Admission Committee, Relevance Assessment Committee (RAC) will be 
constituted, with the approval of the Vice Chancellor. The RAC shall consist 
of the respective Dean of the faculty, Director QEC, and two subject experts 
not less than professor. The RAC shall submit a report with detailed reasons 
and rationale for the assessment decision, which shall be effective with the 
approval of ASRB. 
3.7.2 
Each PhD project would have a PhD Review Committee constituting of all 
Deans and Secretary, ASRB. The role of the Committee would be as follows: 
(i) 
Evaluating the Progress Reports and submitting its report to ASRB in 
prescribed format.  
(ii) 
Sorting issues with the students, including student grievance issues if 
any, during the progress of his/ her PhD research, while obtaining input 
from concerned Dean, Chairperson, and Supervisor(s). 
4. 
GENERAL SCHEME OF STUDIES 
4.1  
(a) The scholar shall be required to register and qualify taught courses – each 
equivalent to three credit hours. These courses are to be designed by the 
Supervisor or any other senior faculty member, reviewed by BOS and 
approved by ASRB. 
(i) 
Those admitted after completing a graduate degree in the same discipline 
(MS or equivalent), shall be required to complete coursework of 18 credit 
hours. The departmental Postgraduate Admissions Committee shall 
decide such cases. 
(ii) 
Those admitted after Master’s degree (18 years) but in a different 
discipline, shall be required to complete additional coursework of 6 to 9 
credit hours. The departmental Postgraduate Admissions Committee 
shall decide such cases. 
(iii) A residency requirement for a period of at least two years shall be 
mandatory. 
4.1(b) (i) The scholar is required to successfully pass these courses within minimum 
twelve- month period (if the scholar has to pass 18 credit hours coursework) 
and minimum eighteen months period (if the scholar has to pass additional 6 
to 9 credit hours coursework). This period can be extended by a further six 
months with approval of concerned Dean on the recommendations of 
Supervisor and Chairperson. 
4.1(b) (ii) Courses up to a maximum of 9 credit hours shall be allowed in a semester. 
4.1(b)(iii) In special circumstances, University may grant extension for Coursework, 
Comprehensive Examination and Research Proposal defense till Third year / 
Sixth semester from the date of admission in the Programme, including all 
withdrawals, beyond which the admission shall be cancelled. 
4.1 (c) The following grades/grade points with the equivalent marks shall be awarded 
to the students on the basis of their performance in each course of study.

Page 5 of 12 
 
 
Grade Grade 
Point 
Existing 
Marks 
Proposed 
Marks 
Proposed Remarks 
A 
4.0 
88 – 100 
85 - 100 
Excellent 
A – 
3.7 
80 – 87 
80 – 84 
Very Good 
B + 
3.4 
75 – 79 
75 – 79 
Good 
B 
3.0 
70 – 74 
70 – 74 
Above Average 
B – 
2.7 
67 – 69 
67 – 69 
Average 
C + 
2.4 
64 – 66 
64 – 66 
Fair 
C 
2.0 
60 – 63 
60 – 63 
Acceptable 
C – 
1.7 
57 – 59 
57 – 59 
Pass 
D + 
1.4 
54 – 56 
54 – 56 
Weak 
D 
1.0 
50 – 53 
50 – 53 
Poor 
F 
0.0 
Below 50 Below 50 
Fail 
S 
- 
- 
- 
Satisfactory (for Thesis) 
U 
- 
- 
- 
Unsatisfactory (for Thesis) 
P 
- 
50 – 100 
50 – 100 
Pass in non-credit course 
X 
- 
- 
- 
Exempted 
I 
- 
- 
- 
Incomplete 
IP 
WU 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
In Progress 
unofficial withdrawal 
 
4.1  
(d) Successful completion of all assigned courses would entail achieving a 
minimum overall CGPA of 3.0 with all assigned courses passing. 
4.1  
(e) Registration in a course for change of grade/improvement will be subject 
to the following conditions: 
   (i) Change of grade/ improvement may be allowed once for each course.  
   (ii) Better grade(s), if any, will be considered for determining GPA/CGPA. 
4.1  
(f) Transfer of credits earned via coursework in other HEC recognized 
Universities may be approved on case-by-case basis up to a maximum 
determined by a Committee formulated by University Administration as 
deemed pertinent to determine the equivalence of such cases as and when 
required. 
4.2  
Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a committee after 
successful completion of all courses, consisting of Research Supervisor, 
Chairperson and a senior faculty member of the concerned department. This 
Committee shall be approved by the concerned Dean. Every PhD student shall 
be required to pass the comprehensive examination, by obtaining minimum 
of 50% score in the exam, in order to be granted candidacy as PhD researcher. 
4.2.1 Any student who is unable to continue PhD while being at the stage of 
course work or beyond, may seek for either of the following: 
(a) Request for cancellation of admission without being awarded any 
degree or certificate. 
(b) Request consideration for the award of Masters’ Degree provided all 
relevant Masters’ Degree regulations are applied. 
4.3  
Comprehensive Examination shall comprise of written examination (and oral 
if deemed significant by the Committee), covering at least the knowledge 
imparted in all assigned courses completed during induction period.

Page 6 of 12 
 
4.4  
During the induction period the scholar shall have to prepare a research 
proposal, which the scholar shall be required to present in a Seminar after 
obtaining PhD Candidacy. If the Supervisor/Department deems that the 
proposal needs further work, it may apprise the scholar appropriately 
assigning him a timeline for a proposal re-defense. 
4.5  
Subsequent to the presentation in Research Seminar, the proposal shall be 
forwarded by the Supervisor to the concerned Board of Studies on the 
prescribed format approved by ASRB. 
(a) 
The concerned Board of Studies may adopt its own procedure for 
evaluating the technical and financial merit of the proposal and will 
submit, along with the proposal, its recommendations on prescribed 
format duly endorsed by the Chairperson.  
(b) 
After the consideration of the Research Proposal by the respective 
Board of Studies, the Chairperson will send it to the concerned 
Dean, who will subsequently forward the same to the following 
reviewers: 
 
i.  One reviewer from abroad. 
 
ii. One reviewer from any HEI or research institute within Country.  
(c) 
Both the reviewers may be from outside the Country, in case of non-
availability of a reviewer from within the country. 
(d) 
The reviewer should be a full time PhD faculty member at any 
university, or a researcher or scientist at any R&D or public/private 
sector organization. 
(e) 
The reviewer should not have been associated with the candidate’s 
PhD research work (other than usual contact in taught courses or 
other non-thesis activities within the University), nor he / she be 
related to the candidate or Supervisor(s). 
(f) 
The reviewer from outside the Country should belong to a university 
ranked among the world top 500 universities by the Times Higher 
Education or QS World Ranking in the year corresponding to 
research proposal evaluation year.  
(g) 
The reviewer from within the Country should have least 10 research 
publications in the subject area of PhD project in peer-reviewed 
journals of international repute as determined by the University. 
S(He) should be an active researcher. 
(h) 
The reviewers as proposed by the concerned Dean and approved by 
the Vice Chancellor will be accordingly notified. 
(i) 
After receiving the reviewers’ comments, the following actions will 
be taken; 
i.   
In case the two reviewers recommend minor changes, the 
Supervisor shall forward the Research Proposal to ASRB along 
with the reviewers’ reports, affirming that the PhD Scholar has 
incorporated the suggestions.  
ii.   In case, if any reviewer recommends major changes, the 
research proposal shall be revised/modified according to the 
suggestions 
received 
from 
the 
reviewer(s) 
and 
then 
resubmitted to the reviewers for their consent. The revised 
research proposal shall subsequently be forwarded to ASRB 
along with the reviewers’ reports for inclusion in the ASRB 
meeting via concerned Dean.

Page 7 of 12 
 
iii. 
In case if any reviewer rejects the Research Proposal, the 
revised research proposal shall be resubmitted to the Board of 
Studies for evaluation and onward transmission to the 
reviewers through the respective Dean. 
4.6  
The registration in PhD research shall only be confirmed by ASRB subject to 
following conditions: 
(a) 
The Scholar has successfully completed all assigned courses with 3.0 
CGPA. 
(b) 
Has qualified Comprehensive Examination. 
(c) 
Successfully presented Research Proposal in a Seminar. 
(d) 
Research proposal has been approved by ASRB. 
4.7  
Research performance will be based on fulltime research conducted after 
confirmation of registration in PhD research by ASRB. 
4.8  
The minimum period for completion of PhD Programme shall be as follow: 
(a) 
Minimum 36 months (including minimum 12 months for course work 
and minimum 24 months research period) for scholars securing 
admission after Masters’ degree. 
(b) 
The maximum duration shall be determined from the date of student 
enrollment until the date of the completion notification of the PhD degree. 
(c) 
The maximum period for completion of PhD shall be 96 months. 
(d)  Further extension of 24 months may be allowed in cases where the 
students may not be able to complete their degree requirements within 
eight (8) years due to the circumstances beyond the student’s control. 
Note: 
The date of notification of the award of the PhD degree subsequent to the PhD 
defense shall be considered to be the date of the completion of PhD studies. 
4.9  
Each candidate shall get paper(s) published after approval of the Research 
Proposal by ASRB, containing his/her research work during PhD carried out 
at this University before the award of PhD degree, in pertinent categories of 
relevant journal(s) prescribed as under: 
4.9.1 Paper(s) published in peer reviewed journals, with impact factors and 
listed in Journal Citation Report (JCR) of Clarivate Analytics, and being 
listed in HJRS as mentioned below:  
(a) Publication of one research article in W category journal or two 
research articles in X category journals, will be required for Science 
and Engineering disciplines (excluding X‡, as specified by HEC Local 
Committee and displayed on the HJRS website). 
(b) Publication of one research article in X category journal or two 
research articles in Y category journals, will be required for Social 
Science discipline (excluding X‡ and Y‡, as specified by HEC Local 
Committee and displayed on the HJRS website). 
4.9.2 The candidate must be the first author and the co-author(s) must be 
limited to the research team approved in the Research Proposal. 
5. 
RESEARCH ASSIGNMENT AND SUPERVISION 
5.1 The Supervisor shall be responsible for initial definition and plan of the research 
assigned to the scholar. 
5.1.1 The research area of the PhD researcher shall: 
(i) 
Correspond to the community needs at regional and local levels and 
comply with the priority to national research agenda.

Page 8 of 12 
 
(ii) 
Reflect the basic, pure and applied research. 
(iii) Signify emerging areas of research that coincide preferably with 
sustainable development goals (SDGs). 
5.2 The Supervisor shall also be responsible for guiding the candidate in development 
of the research proposal and for working on the research plan. 
5.3 The Supervisor shall suggest reading material to enhance the scholar’s 
understanding of subjects related to the research topic. 
5.4 The PhD Review Committee shall regularly monitor on biannual basis for both 
externally funded PhD projects and University funded PhD projects (fully or 
partially funded) the progress of the candidate, and then submit a report to ASRB 
on prescribed format. The Committee shall meet once every quarter – prior to 
scheduled ASRB meetings – for providing its recommendations to ASRB on the 
accumulated Progress Reports. 
5.5 The research work shall be carried out in the concerned Department or in the 
laboratory of some other Department(s) of the University. With the approval of 
the concerned Dean some part of such work may be carried out in some other 
organization or institution. 
6. 
PROGRESS OF WORK 
6.1 Each candidate shall be expected to attend the University regularly and submit 
to the supervisor Biannual Progress Reports during the period of research. This 
report shall be submitted to PhD review committee for evaluation and subsequent 
recommendations to ASRB. Any candidate failing to attend the University 
regularly and/or not showing sufficient progress may not be allowed to continue 
enrolment in the programme.  
6.2 Any change in the subject, title and/or outline of the approved research proposal 
shall require prior approval of ASRB. Such change shall be submitted to ASRB 
through the concerned Board of Studies. 
6.3 
(a) A candidate, who is temporarily unable to continue research because of 
unavoidable circumstances, should file an application to the ASRB through 
the Supervisor for temporary suspension from the programme. Such leave of 
absence shall not exceed twelve months. During this period, the PhD project 
shall be suspended and no remuneration shall be paid. 
6.3 
(b) On return after availing the leave, Chairperson of the concerned 
department on recommendation of Supervisor may allow the student to 
continue and inform ASRB. 
6.4  Admission of any candidate enrolled in the PhD programme may be cancelled 
under the following circumstances: 
(i) 
If the candidate is not regular in attending the University. 
(ii) 
If the candidate is involved in any serious disciplinary action. 
(iii) If the candidate fails to qualify all courses or pass comprehensive 
examination after two attempts. 
(iv) If the candidate fails to successfully defend the research proposal after two 
attempts. 
(v) 
If the candidate fails to demonstrate satisfactory progress. 
(vi) If the candidate is found in major violation of any other policy or code of 
conduct of the University (such as plagiarism policy etc.). 
(vii) If the candidate is unable to complete Coursework, pass Comprehensive 
Examination, and defend Research Proposal before ASRB till Third Year / 
Sixth Semester, from the date of admission in the Program, including 
withdrawals.

Page 9 of 12 
 
7. 
SUBMISSION AND EVALUATION OF THESIS 
7.1 A candidate may be allowed by the Vice Chancellor to submit the thesis only after: 
7.1.1 Fulfilling all requirements put forward by the Postgraduate Admission 
Committee at the time of admission; 
7.1.2 Successful registration in PhD research as per clause 4.6; 
7.1.3 Pursuing full-time research work for at least twenty-four months at the 
University; 
7.1.4 Publishing/Getting accepted journal paper(s) as per clause 4.9. 
7.1.5 Fulfilling all other regulatory requirements prescribed by the University. 
7.2 Every candidate shall be required to produce a declaration counter-signed by the 
Supervisor and endorsed by the Chairperson that his thesis contains material 
contribution to knowledge and affords evidence of originality shown by the 
discovery of new facts or of new interpretations and that the thesis represents 
original work done by the candidate himself. 
7.3 The thesis shall be written in the English language and shall be in the form 
prescribed by the University. 
7.4 No thesis shall be considered satisfactory unless it shows evidence of original 
inquiry, capacity for development or application of scientific principles and 
methods, acquaintance with work of others in similar fields and ability in 
presentation of ideas. 
7.5 The concerned Board of Studies shall recommend the thesis for onward 
submission to two foreign experts. 
7.6 The thesis shall be submitted to PhD experts as External Evaluator(s) / Expert(s). 
These evaluators are to be approved by ASRB on recommendation of the Board 
of Studies concerned. The selection of the evaluator(s) shall be as follows: 
7.6.1 The PhD dissertation must be evaluated by: 
a. 
At least two external experts who shall be: 
(i) 
PhD faculty member from the world top 500 universities ranked 
by the Times Higher Education or QS World Ranking in the year 
corresponding to dissertation evaluation year  
 
OR 
(ii) 
Pakistan-based Distinguished National Professors, Meritorious 
Professors from any national university, or professors from top 
universities ranked by HEC, or professors from any Pakistani 
University, having a minimum H-Index 30 for Sciences, 15 for 
Social Sciences or 8 for Art & Humanities as determined by Web 
of Science. 
 
OR 
b. 
At least one external expert qualifying any one of the conditions 
mentioned at ‘a’ above if the PhD candidate publishes dissertation 
research in a peer-reviewed journal that is classified by the HEC in 
category W for Sciences and X or above for Social Sciences. 
c. 
S(He) should not have served as Supervisor/Co-Supervisor of the PhD 
candidate. 
d. 
S(He) should not have been a co-author of the candidate on PhD 
publication. 
7.6.2 Same external evaluator(s) / expert(s) should preferably not to be 
reappointed within a span of six months.

Page 10 of 12 
 
7.7 The Plagiarism Test must be conducted on the thesis by the Supervisor using 
Turnitin Software, or any other software approved by the University, before its 
submission to the external evaluator(s). The candidate will be required to bring 
the similarity in acceptable range as prescribed below: 
(a) 
Overall acceptable range of similarity index is less than 20%. In addition, 
combined amount of AI-generated text as well as AI-generated text that is 
AI-paraphrased, should be less than 20%. 
(b) 
Maximum acceptable range of similarity index from an individual link is 5%. 
(c) 
There must not be a similarity more than 3% in the abstract of the thesis. 
(d) 
Verbatim copy of text would be considered as plagiarism.  
(e) 
While conducting similarity test, following settings, as recommended by 
HEC, should be followed: 
● Exclude bibliographic material = Yes; 
● Exclude small matches = Yes; 
● Exclude matches by: Word count = 5 words 
● All other settings left at default 
(f) 
Similarities of a report from the Scholar’s own (previous) work may be 
ignored provided that the material has been cited by the Scholar. 
(g) 
Reported plagiarism cases shall be dealt with as per Plagiarism Regulations 
of NED University. 
7.8 On the recommendation of the Board of Studies concerned, the Advanced Studies 
and Research Board shall propose a panel of three examiners including the 
Supervisor for evaluation of thesis and examination. One of the examiners shall 
be from outside the University. 
7.8.1 The examiners, other than the Supervisor(s), should not have been 
associated with the candidate’s PhD research work (other than usual 
contact in taught courses or other non-thesis activities within the 
University), nor the examiners be related to the candidate or Supervisor(s). 
7.8.2 Each examiner should have PhD and possess relevant academic expertise 
as demonstrated by at least one of the following: 
(i) 
S(He) has at least 10 research publications in the subject area of PhD 
project in peer-reviewed journals of international repute as determined 
by the University. 
(ii) 
S(He) has produced at least 2 PhDs/Post-Docs in the subject area of 
PhD project. 
7.8.3 S(He) should be an active researcher. 
7.8.4 Same examiner(s) should preferably not to be reappointed within a span of 
six months. 
7.9 A candidate shall submit an application on prescribed form after fulfilling 
conditions of Section 7.1 to the Vice Chancellor for his examination and shall 
submit three copies of the thesis for evaluation. 
7.10 An open defense of the thesis (an announced public seminar followed by an 
examination by the designated examiners) shall be conducted after positive 
evaluation from foreign experts. Public Announcement shall be made on the 
University website and other forums of communication. 
7.11 Three examiners (having PhD Degree and research area in the relevant discipline) 
shall examine the thesis.  
 
The report of the evaluators / experts shall also be made available to the 
examiners. The candidate shall be required to undergo a viva-voce examination

Page 11 of 12 
 
to be conducted jointly by the examiners. The panel of examiners shall submit a 
report to the ASRB. No degree shall be awarded unless all the three examiners 
recommend the award of degree. 
7.11.1 A neutral Chair, as an Observer, shall be nominated by the concerned 
Dean to ensure that defense is conducted fairly and in accordance with 
the relevant Rules and Regulations. 
7.12 The result of examination shall be declared in the following manner: 
(a) 
Requirement fulfilled without any corrections 
(b) 
Requirement fulfilled with minor corrections 
(c) 
Deferred 
(d) 
Failure 
7.12.1 In case of result as 7.12(b); one of the members of the Examiners' 
Committee, as nominated by the Examiners' Committee, shall certify that 
the corrections are carried out to his satisfaction. 
7.12.2 In the case of a deferred result, the Examiners' Committee shall indicate 
in what respect the material of the thesis should be modified and specify 
period for resubmission. Committee shall also decide whether to hold 
subsequent examination or not. 
7.12.3 The Examiners' Committee shall deposit the result of the entire 
examination of the candidate immediately after the oral examination and 
shall submit the result in the prescribed form to the Controller of 
Examinations. 
7.13 If the thesis is not accepted for PhD degree but found to have made some 
contribution sufficient for award of Master’s Degree, the University may on the 
recommendation of examiners, confer Master’s Degree to the candidate, subject 
to resubmission after necessary changes in the thesis format, while applying all 
Masters’ Degree Regulations. 
7.14 If the examiners find that the thesis is wholly inadequate, they may recommend 
that it be rejected without any further test. 
8. 
AWARD OF DEGREE 
8.1 PhD degree shall be awarded to a successful candidate with the permission of the 
University Syndicate. 
9. 
PUBLICATION OF THESIS 
9.1 Successful candidate shall submit four hard copies and one soft copy of the thesis 
in a prescribed format to the Chairperson of the concerned Department. 
9.2 The Chairperson shall retain one copy for the departmental Library and shall 
forward three copies to Controller of Examinations for necessary disposal as follows: 
9.2.1 Two copies to be disposed to University Library. 
9.2.2 One hard copy and one soft copy to be disposed to the Registrar for onward 
transmission to HEC for record in PhD Country Directory and for attestation 
of the PhD degree by the HEC in future. 
9.3 The intellectual property rights of the outcome of any research carried out by the 
students during PhD shall be dealt with according to the NED University 
Regulations pertaining to Ownership, Management and Commercialization of 
Intellectual Property. 
10. REMUNERATION OF EXAMINERS, FEES AND OTHER CHARGES 
10.1 Examiners shall be paid such remuneration as may be prescribed by the 
University from time to time.

Page 12 of 12 
 
10.2 The rate of fees and other charges payable by the students shall be such as may 
be prescribed by the University from time to time, and announced through the 
relevant Prospectus/ University Notifications. 
10.3 Subject to approval by the competent authority, these Regulations may be 
changed from time to time. Changes shall be announced through University 
Notifications and/or relevant Prospectus. 
11. CONDUCT OF PhD PROGRAMME 
11.1 There should be at least 3 relevant full time PhD faculty members in the faculty 
to launch the PhD programme. 
11.2 A faculty member may supervise / co-supervise a maximum of twelve (12) 
Masters / PhD students at a time with no more than five (5) of these students 
being PhD scholars. 
 
        REGISTRAR 
To, 
Secretary, ASRB 
 
Copy to: 
 
 
1- 
All Deans 
2- 
All Chairpersons of Teaching Departments 
3- 
Controller of Examinations 
4- 
Director, I.T. Department 
5- 
Deputy Registrar (Cdn) 
6- 
Assistant Registrar (Academic) 
7- 
I.T. Manager, Registrar Office  
 
 
Copy for information to: 
 
 
1- 
PS to the Vice Chancellor 
2- 
PA to Pro-Vice Chancellor 
3- 
Director QEC